## Design Thinking Theory
- The dominant design thinking modes:
  - **Empathise:** Understanding the user
  - **Define:** Defining the problem space
  - **Ideate:** Generating ideas
  - **Prototype:** Testing designs
  - **Test:** Testing prototypes

This is a non-linear process; you can go back and forth between stages. Design thinking also fits well with the Agile Scrum framework for rapid prototyping.

# Empathize
The first step is to develop a deep and comprehensive understanding of the problem or challenge you are seeking to address. To gain valuable insights, talk directly to users who are impacted by or related to the problem space, such as international students or teachers in this case.

It's crucial to set aside any preconceived assumptions you may have in order to approach the problem space with an open mind and gain fresh perspectives. Your initial idea or proposed solution may evolve or change significantly after engaging with and listening to the experiences and feedback of these users.

# Define
After gaining insights from users in the empathize stage, the next step is to clearly articulate and define the specific problem you want to solve. Ensure that your proposed solution has a clear purpose and directly addresses a particular problem or pain point identified. 

Frame and scope the problem space by leveraging the user insights and understanding you developed during the empathise stage. For example, you may articulate the problem as: "Tourists need a fast and efficient way to track and manage their health care while overseas, because they don't have anything that lets them do that independently."

See Also
[[2. Case Study Examples]]